README.md, before:

# [Ghost](https://github.com/TryGhost/Ghost) [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/TryGhost/Ghost.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/TryGhost/Ghost)

![Ghost Screenshot](https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/120485/4828504/9e832764-5f80-11e4-8ac1-0332bcc67a35.png)

Ghost is a free, open, simple blogging platform that's available to anyone who wants to use it. Lovingly created and maintained by [John O'Nolan](http://twitter.com/JohnONolan) + [Hannah Wolfe](http://twitter.com/ErisDS) + an amazing group of [contributors](https://github.com/TryGhost/Ghost/contributors).

Visit the project's website at <http://ghost.org> &bull; docs on <http://support.ghost.org>.


## Getting Involved

Want to report a bug, request a feature, contribute or translate Ghost? Check out our in-depth guide to [Contributing to Ghost](https://github.com/TryGhost/Ghost/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md). We need all the help we can get! You can also join in with our [community](https://github.com/TryGhost/Ghost#community) to keep up-to-date and meet other Ghosters.


## Getting Started

There are a few different ways to install Ghost, take care to use the method which best suits your needs.

**Please note** - the downloadable zip files we provide on [Ghost.org](http://ghost.org/download), the [GitHub releases page](https://github.com/TryGhost/Ghost/releases), and via npm are pre-built packages designed for getting setup quickly. Cloning from the git repository requires you to install several dependencies and build the assets yourself. 


### Install from zip (fastest & best for bloggers)

If you just want to get a Ghost blog running in the fastest time possible, this method is for you.

For detailed instructions on various platforms, visit the [Ghost Installation Guide](http://support.ghost.org/installation/). If you get stuck, help is available on [our support site](http://support.ghost.org/).

1. Install [Node.js](http://nodejs.org) - Ghost requires **Node v0.10.x**
1. Download the latest Ghost package from [Ghost.org](http://ghost.org/download). 
1. Create a new directory where you would like to run the code, and un-zip the package to that location.
1. Fire up a Terminal, the Node Command Prompt or shell and change directory to the root of the Ghost application (where config.example.js and index.js are)
1. run `npm install --production` to install the node dependencies. If you see `error Error: ENOENT` on this step, make sure you are in the project directory and try again.
1. To start ghost, run `npm start`
1. Visit `http://localhost:2368/` in your web browser or go to `http://localhost:2368/ghost` to log in

Check out the [Documentation](http://support.ghost.org/) for more detailed instructions, or get in touch via the [forum](http://ghost.org/forum) if you get stuck.


### Install from git

If you're a developer or someone comfortable getting up and running from a `git clone`, this method is for you.

If you clone the GitHub repository, you will need to build a number of assets using grunt.

Please do **NOT** use the master branch of Ghost in production. If you are using git to deploy to production, please use the latest [release](https://github.com/TryGhost/Ghost/releases) or the [stable](https://github.com/TryGhost/Ghost/tree/stable) branch which contains the latest release.

Full instructions & troubleshooting tips can be found in the [Contributing Guide](https://github.com/TryGhost/Ghost/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#working-on-ghost-core).

#### Quickstart:

1. `npm install -g grunt-cli`
1. `npm install`
1. `grunt init` (and `grunt prod` if you want to run Ghost in production mode)
1. `npm start`

Check out the [Documentation](http://support.ghost.org/) for more detailed instructions, or get in touch via the [forum](http://ghost.org/forum) if you get stuck.


### Install from npm

If you want to build Ghost into a larger node app, or are familiar with using `npm` packages, then this method might be for you.

`npm install ghost`

Further setup instructions can be found in the [using Ghost as an npm module](https://github.com/TryGhost/Ghost/wiki/Using-Ghost-as-an-npm-module) wiki entry.


### Upgrading to The Latest Version

Upgrade instructions can be found on the [Ghost Support Site](http://support.ghost.org/how-to-upgrade/)


### Logging in For The First Time

Once you have the Ghost server up and running, you should be able to navigate to `http://localhost:2368/ghost/` from a web browser, where you will be prompted to setup your blog and user account. Once you have entered your desired credentials you will be automatically logged in to the admin area. The setup screen will not be accessible once the process has been completed.


## Community

Keep track of Ghost development and Ghost community activity.

* Follow Ghost on [Twitter](http://twitter.com/TryGhost), [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/ghost) and [Google+](https://plus.google.com/114465948129362706086).
* Read and subscribe to the [Official Ghost Blog](http://blog.ghost.org) and the [Ghost Development Blog](http://dev.ghost.org).
* Join in discussions on the [Ghost Forum](http://ghost.org/forum/)
* Chat with Ghost developers on IRC. We're on `irc.freenode.net`, in the `#Ghost` channel. We have a public meeting every Tuesday at 5:30pm London time.


## Versioning

For transparency and insight into our release cycle, and for striving to maintain backward compatibility, Ghost will be maintained according to the [Semantic Versioning](http://semver.org/) guidelines as much as possible.

Releases will be numbered with the following format:

`<major>.<minor>.<patch>-<build>`

Constructed with the following guidelines:

* A new *major* release indicates a large change where backwards compatibility is broken.
* A new *minor* release indicates a normal change that maintains backwards compatibility.
* A new *patch* release indicates a bugfix or small change which does not affect compatibility.
* A new *build* release indicates this is a pre-release of the version.


## Copyright & License

Copyright (c) 2013-2015 Ghost Foundation - Released under the [MIT license](LICENSE).

Commit message:

update ghost to latest version

README.md, after:

# [Ghost](https://github.com/TryGhost/Ghost) [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/TryGhost/Ghost.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/TryGhost/Ghost)

![Ghost Screenshot](https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/120485/4828504/9e832764-5f80-11e4-8ac1-0332bcc67a35.png)

Ghost is a free, open, simple blogging platform that's available to anyone who wants to use it. Lovingly created and maintained by [John O'Nolan](http://twitter.com/JohnONolan) + [Hannah Wolfe](http://twitter.com/ErisDS) + an amazing group of [contributors](https://github.com/TryGhost/Ghost/contributors).

Visit the project's website at <http://ghost.org> &bull; docs on <http://support.ghost.org>.


## Getting Involved

Want to report a bug, request a feature, contribute, or translate Ghost? Check out our in-depth guide to [Contributing to Ghost](https://github.com/TryGhost/Ghost/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md). We need all the help we can get! You can also join in with our [community](https://github.com/TryGhost/Ghost#community) to keep up-to-date and meet other Ghosters.


## Getting Started

There are a few different ways to install Ghost, take care to use the method which best suits your needs.

**Please note** - the downloadable zip files we provide on [Ghost.org](http://ghost.org/download), the [GitHub releases page](https://github.com/TryGhost/Ghost/releases), and via npm are pre-built packages designed for getting setup quickly. Cloning from the git repository requires you to install several dependencies and build the assets yourself. 

### Compatibility

Ghost is fully compatible with **Node v0.10.x**, 0.10.36 is the recommended version of Node for running Ghost in production.

Ghost is also compatible with **Node v0.12** and **io.js-v1.2**. Please note that these versions are more likely to run into installation problems, please use the [support forum](https://ghost.org/forum/installation/) for help with install issues.

Ghost may also be compatible with other io.js versions, providing binaries are available for sqlite3, and for node-sass if you are building Ghost from source rather than using a pre-built zip file.


### Install from zip (fastest & best for bloggers)

If you just want to get a Ghost blog running in the fastest time possible, this method is for you.

For detailed instructions on various platforms, visit the [Ghost Installation Guide](http://support.ghost.org/installation/). If you get stuck, help is available on [our support site](http://support.ghost.org/).

1. Install [Node.js](http://nodejs.org) - See [compatibility](https://github.com/TryGhost/Ghost#compatibility) section for details of supported versions
1. Download the latest Ghost package from [Ghost.org](http://ghost.org/download). 
1. Create a new directory where you would like to run the code, and un-zip the package to that location.
1. Fire up a Terminal, the Node Command Prompt or shell and change directory to the root of the Ghost application (where config.example.js and index.js are)
1. run `npm install --production` to install the node dependencies. If you see `error Error: ENOENT` on this step, make sure you are in the project directory and try again.
1. To start ghost, run `npm start`
1. Visit `http://localhost:2368/` in your web browser or go to `http://localhost:2368/ghost` to log in

Check out the [Documentation](http://support.ghost.org/) for more detailed instructions, or get in touch via the [forum](http://ghost.org/forum) if you get stuck.


### Install from git

If you're a developer or someone comfortable getting up and running from a `git clone`, this method is for you.

If you clone the GitHub repository, you will need to build a number of assets using grunt.

Please do **NOT** use the master branch of Ghost in production. If you are using git to deploy to production, please use the latest [release](https://github.com/TryGhost/Ghost/releases) or the [stable](https://github.com/TryGhost/Ghost/tree/stable) branch which contains the latest release.

Full instructions & troubleshooting tips can be found in the [Contributing Guide](https://github.com/TryGhost/Ghost/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#working-on-ghost-core).

#### Quickstart:

1. Install node (see [compatibility](https://github.com/TryGhost/Ghost#compatibility) section for details of supported versions)
1. `npm install -g grunt-cli`
1. `npm install`
1. `grunt init` (and `grunt prod` if you want to run Ghost in production mode)
1. `npm start`

Check out the [Documentation](http://support.ghost.org/) for more detailed instructions, or get in touch via the [forum](http://ghost.org/forum) if you get stuck.


### Install from npm

If you want to build Ghost into a larger node app, or are familiar with using `npm` packages, then this method might be for you.

`npm install ghost`

Further setup instructions can be found in the [using Ghost as an npm module](https://github.com/TryGhost/Ghost/wiki/Using-Ghost-as-an-npm-module) wiki entry.


### Keeping up-to-date

Upgrade instructions can be found on the [Ghost Support Site](http://support.ghost.org/how-to-upgrade/).

New releases are announced on the [dev blog](http://dev.ghost.org/tag/releases/), which you can subscribe to for notifications of new versions. Each new release is published with highlights and a full changelog, which are also available on the [releases page](https://github.com/TryGhost/Ghost/releases) of GitHub.


### Logging in For The First Time

Once you have the Ghost server up and running, you should be able to navigate to `http://localhost:2368/ghost/` from a web browser, where you will be prompted to setup your blog and user account. Once you have entered your desired credentials you will be automatically logged in to the admin area. The setup screen will not be accessible once the process has been completed.


## Community

Keep track of Ghost development and Ghost community activity.

* Follow Ghost on [Twitter](http://twitter.com/TryGhost), [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/ghost) and [Google+](https://plus.google.com/114465948129362706086).
* Read and subscribe to the [Official Ghost Blog](http://blog.ghost.org) and the [Ghost Development Blog](http://dev.ghost.org).
* Join in discussions on the [Ghost Forum](http://ghost.org/forum/)
* Chat with Ghost developers on IRC. We're on `irc.freenode.net`, in the `#Ghost` channel. We have a public meeting every Tuesday at 5:30pm London time.


## Copyright & License

Copyright (c) 2013-2015 Ghost Foundation - Released under the [MIT license](LICENSE).
